use 1 s3, want to use diff s3 to remote state how to manage it ?

team of 10 working on same git repo where tf code same. how to isolate each other work.
branching stretegy. - use module branch - use tagging while pushing new tf code.
if you push without tag it will impact other code.



11 May 2026

1. A hidden container is start while you start/create a pod ?
- Puase Container - Why ? What ?

2. how many classes of qos in k8s ?

3. gurentees, best , in qos ?

4. what are lifecycle phase of pod ?

5. when i can get unknown error  in k8s ?

6. what is liveness, readiness and startup probs ?

7. how many types of probs ?

8. what is priority for this probs ?

9. when we do kubectl exec pod , what is happening at os level. how and what is a exect flow ?

10. how authentications and authorizations happens and its flow ?

11. what are initcontainers and sidecontainers?

12. when we runs initcontainers and sidecontainers how resoruce will consume ?

what is priority of securitycontext writtern in the dockerfile, pod, container ?


What is a projected volumes ?

What is downword api ?

What is a lifecycle of pvc pv ?
available, bound, deleted, release

What is storage class does ?
What is accessmode and storage class types ?

Go to AWS EKS Workshop websites

---

what is class in ingress ?
why we define vpcid while installing aws-load-balancer cotroller by helm ?

How to enabel - automatic generate aws certificate and its arn and how we will use ?

What is drawback of nginx ingress controller ?

---

why we use helm instead of kubectl apply ?
what is chart in helm ?

what is chart version what is appVersions?

if i dont have helm , want to show which resources has deployed by helm ?

what do helm install --upgrade ?

when i will use helm install, upgrade, and install --upgrade ?

what do helm diff ?

how to pass secrets values duirng install, upgrade ?
Use ESO Helm chart for secrets

---

how many types of k8s addons ?
managed & self managed

which type of addons i will use while ?
why ?

which will a best addons in prod env ?

what is vpc cni ?
how vpc cni is going for to assgin ip to pods ? what is actual flow ?

what is eni ?

---

where healthcheck probe will go if i use instance mode and ip mode ?

what is ingressgroup ? 

will ingressgroup support to multiple namespace ?

create ingressgroup - this will have resources with alb and delete ingressgroup ?
what happens ?

what is elasticache redis ? how it is connecting to our apps in eks ?

what is benifits and disadv of using externalName svc ?

helm install ui oci://address --set app.theme=orange
Will this update data in your apps ? so where it will update like configmap, secrets, deployment , pods ?
why pods will not restart after passing this value ?
It will not restart pods if there is no changes regarding only to manifests like deployment, pods etc
It will not restart pods if changes reagarding configmap and secrets

I want to restart pod after update configmap . what are the ways to restart pods ?
1. annotations

what if pod is running and its has fetched cofigmap from k8s configmpa resource.
but i realized that i did not provided one of configmap and want to update to that running pod.
how can i achive this goal ?

---

what is ttl ? why its requires in the dns resolver ?
what is benifit and drawback of high and low ttl ?

ttl can be configure in dns server or forwarder side ?
what is routing policy ?

what is diff between latency and geolocation based routing policy ?

If your apps accessing slows in your k8s cluster how will you solve ?
- must check core-dns

Also consider SQS queue - dead letter queue and all types queue with drawback and benifits

what if sqs queues getting 5000 queues per minutes but my pod app can proccess only 500 per minutes ?
how to achive this goal to process 5k queues by pods ?

how dns-controller works - 

---

How eks with karpenter will manage 0 down time ?
Ex. If you uses spot instance for your nodegroup , when it will delete / inturupt how your eks will manage 0 down time ?
- PDB and terminations grace period

---

what is karpenter drift ? how will you handle it ?

---

what is monitoring and observability ?

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/solutions/cell-based-architecture-for-amazon-eks/

cell-architecture is ans NOT Node Anti-Anffinity and PV PVC Retail policy and topology
